GCX - SOFTWARE FOR OBSERVATION AUTOMATION AND DATA REDUCTION

Radu Corlan

  Over the last year or so i've been developing gxc, a program that
automates observations and VS data reductions. It started with cx, 
a program i made to control my home-made ccd camera.
(http://astro.corlan.net/cpx3m/index.html). 

  As the telescope i use doesn't point accurately enough to be able to 
make observations unattended, i've added a field-matching algorithm
that can make pointing corrections by comparing the positions of starts 
extracted from a test frame to the GSC. It is now possible to obtain frames
from hundreds of different fields in a fully automatic mode.

  Identifying stars is also the most tedious step in data reduction. With the
field-matching algorithm, GCX can astrometrically calibrate a frame against
the GSC or some other catalog starting from an approximate position and scale,
such as the coordinates of the target and the focal length of the telescope.

  Once the frame is astrometrically calibrated, the program can do aperture
photometry on selected stars. To automate the process, position standards and
photometric standards are grouped in a "recipy" file, which can be thought as 
the electronic equivalent of an aavso chart. 

  The recipy file is 'run' on the data frame, and the program will automatically 
identify and measure the stars in the recipy file, and output a report.
A relatively complex error model generates error figures for all measurements.
I've checked the error model against time-series measurement results, and it
has proven to be quite accurate.

  The program was developed on Linux, but can probably easly be ported to other 
UNIX systems that supprt the gtk-1.2 library. GCX can be run as a gui program, 
performing all the operations step-by-step, or in batch mode - so that it can 
be included in a higher-level reduction script. 

  The project home page is:

    http://astro.corlan.net/index.html  

  It is also listed on freshmeat at:

    http://freshmeat.net/projects/gcx



